## **Appendix C: Communicating to Attendees**

Conference attendees impact each others' experience, and can make the difference between a person feeling welcomed and included, versus isolated and unwelcome. Conference organizers can set expectations for their event to raise awareness and reduce behaviors that can adversely impact other attendees. There are many aspects to diversity.  A version of the following statement can be included as part of a broader statement on diversity and inclusion.

We aim to make this conference a welcoming, inclusive event.  As an attendee, you play a very important role in this.  For example, we can all commit to using a microphone when we ask questions, so that everyone can hear.

We are a neurodiverse community, and we don't all communicate and express ourselves the same way.  Some people prefer direct, literal communication and others talk in idioms and metaphors. Some people need extra time to process and respond. Communication is a two-way process, so let's be flexible and accommodate different communication styles. Sometimes a person may need to leave in the middle of a session, or flap their hands, or pace up and down, or go to a quiet space, and that's ok. So if someone's behavior seems strange to you, don't make assumptions – talk to them directly.

Some of us are more sensitive to smells, sounds and lights than others. Please do not use flash photography as this can induce migraines. Please avoid wearing perfume or aftershave or bringing other strong smells with you.  Be aware of attendees using canes or wheelchairs and give them room to get around. Give up that aisle seat if someone needs it.  Raise your hand and ask the presenter to describe what's happening in their silent video, for the benefit of those who can't see it. These are the actions that add up to a truly inclusive event where we all feel welcome.  Let's make this conference an amazing experience for everyone.